# Mechanics

The Hierophant revolves around four different "themes" with their associated
keywords. In order to facilitate the tactical play around gold, his base relic
(Donation Box) makes it so you're never completely out of funds.

## Doubloons (gilded)

A doubloon is a common, cost 0 ability with the following text:

- Exhaust: Draw 1 card. If Doubloon is not in the exhaust pile at the end of
  combat, gain 10 (20) gold.

Many other cards key off Doubloons (discarding, fetching, exhausting or
otherwise interacting with them) and most of these contain the "Gilded" keyword,
which reads:

- Gilded: When you add this card to your deck, add a Doubloon to your deck.

Doubloons are meant to provide a very direct risk/reward choice by providing
value at the end of the combat as an exchange for clogging your deck.

## Tithe

A few cards have the Tithe keyword, which reads:

- Tithe: You may pay for this card totally of partially with gold, at a rate of
  20 gold per missing energy.

Tithe cards tend to be very expensive for their power level, but enjoy the
flexibility of being able to spend gold to play them at an energy discount (or
even for free). Several of the Hierophant cards key off high energy costs, which
interacts well with Tithe.

## Piety

Piety is the Hierophant's take on an alternate kill condition, similar to the
Silent's Poison.

Piety is a buff you accrue on yourself. When your Piety exceeds a monster's
current HP at the end of your turn, that monster converts to the Hierophant's
religion and is peacefully defeated. Strategies can range from building up piety
exclusively to finish fights, to a hybrid between damage and piety.

However, dealing unblocked damage through an attack decreases your piety in 2.

Many cards that generate piety do so before attacking, so the hierophant may
actually benefit from focusing on enemies with active block, in order to build
up piety. This synergizes with other cards that give block to every participant
in the fight. 

Since Piety can be built upon regardless of enemy block and is inherently AoE,
the numbers are lower than average damage numbers and are generally modeled to
be around Poison levels.

Another buff (Enlightened) makes it so you gain 50% extra piety, similar to
Vulnerability for attack damage.

## Vow

There is a category of powers called Vows, which impose a restriction on your
play in exchange for a benefit. Vows aren't inherently good or bad so they can't
be prevented through Artifact. A few cards key off the number of active vows.

# Cards

## Skills:

## Doubloon (cost 0 skill common)
   * Exhaust. Draw 1 card.
   * At the end of combat, if Doubloon is not in the exhaust pile, gain 8 (16)
     gold.

## Morning Prayer (cost 2 skill common)
   * Gain 12 (16) block and 2 (3) Enlightened.

## Holy Verse (cost 1 skill common) DONE
   * Gain 6 (9) piety.

## Endure (cost 1 skill common)
   * Gain 8 (12) block. Until your next turn, gain 2 (3) piety every time you are
     attacked.

## Encroach (cost 1 skill uncommon)
   * Gain 8 (12) block. Draw 2 (3) cards if you have less block than an enemy.

## Convert Currency (cost 0 skill common)
   * Gilded.
   * Exhaust a card, gain 1(2) energy, or 3(4) if doubloon.

## Recall Funds (cost 1 skill uncommon)
   * Gilded.
   * Exhaust. Return up to 3 (5) doubloons from your exhaust pile to your hand.

## Toll the Bells (cost 1 (0) skill uncommon)
   * Gain 2 energy, 2 enlightened, and shuffle 2 Daze into your draw pile.

## Dazzle (cost 0 skill common)
   * Gilded.
   * Gain 4 (6) block, then 3 (4) block for each doubloon in your hand.

## Embezzle (cost 0 skill uncommon)
   * Gain 60 (90) gold.
   * At the end of combat, return any of the M gold you did not spend.

## Entourage (cost 2 skill common).
   * Tithe.
   * Gain 10 (14) block plus a fifth (fourth) of the gold spent this turn.

## Blessing (cost 1 skill uncommon) DONE
   * Heal 8 (12). NL Heal ALL enemies 8 (12). Exhaust.

## Shelter (cost 1 skill common, base deck)
   * Block 8 (12), Monsters gain block 8 (12).

## Mirror Shield (cost 0 skill uncommon)
   * Gain block equal to an enemy's block. (Draw a card)

## Church Coffers (cost 3 (2) skill common) DONE
   * Tithe.
   * Draw 2 cards, gain 2 energy.

## Sermon (cost 1 skill uncommon)
   * Gain 5 piety, plus 5 piety for each unique active Vow.
   * Enhanced: 8, plus 8 per Vow.

## Divine Intervention (cost 2 skill rare)
   * Restore all HP to an enemy. Gain 2 (3) piety for each HP healed.

## Miracle (cost 1 skill uncommon)
   * Exhaust all status cards in your hand. Gain 4 (6) piety for each status card
     exhausted.

## Bribe (cost 4 skill, uncommon)
   * Tithe.
   * Give all enemies weak 2 (3), and reduce their strength by
     2 (3). Exhaust

## Flagellation (cost 1 skill, uncommon)
   * Add 2 wounds to your hand and gain 10 (15) piety.

## Pristine Soul (cost 2 (1) skill, rare)
   * Set your Piety and Block to the highest of the two values.

## Prophecy (cost 0 skill, uncommon)
   * Reorder your draw pile in decreasing cost order. Exhaust.
   * Enhanced: Shuffle your discard pile into your draw pile, then reorder it in
     decreasing cost order. Exhaust.

## Doomsaying (cost 0 skill, uncommon)
   * Discard the top two (four) cards of your draw pile. Gain energy equal to
     the highest energy cost among them.

## Prayer (cost X skill, uncommon)
   * Play the highest cost card among the top X (X+1) cards of your draw pile.

## Repentance (cost 1 skill, uncommon)
   * Exhaust (no exhaust) Gain Piety equal to twice the piety lost this combat.

## Secret Stash (cost 1 skill, uncommon)
   * Ethereal. Hoard 14 (20).

## Levitation (cost 4 (3) skill, uncommon)
   * Tithe.
   * Gain 1 intangible.
   * Exhaust.

## Bulky Chest (cost 0 skill, rare)
   * Unplayable. Hoard 30 (50). When you draw it, lose 1 energy.

## Cornucopia (cost X skill, uncommon)
   * Add X (upgraded) doubloons to your hand. Exhaust

## Racketeering (cost 1 (0) skill, uncommon)
   * Give an enemy 10 block. Draw a card for each 5 block on that enemy.

## Powers:

## Vow of Poverty (cost 1 power common)
   * You may not gain gold during the battle or as a reward. At the beginning of
     your turn, gain 1 strength. (Innate)

## Vow of Sobriety (cost 0 power uncommon)
   * You may not consume or earn potions as a reward during this combat. At the
     beginning of your turn, gain 1 dexterity. (Innate)

## Vow of Sanctity (cost 1 power common)
   * You lose 3 extra piety when dealing damage.
   * At the end of your turn, gain 10 piety. (Innate)

## Vow of Purity (cost 2 power rare)
   * You may not inflict any negative status effects. At the end of your turn,
     gain 1 artifact.
   * Enhanced: Innate.

## Vow of Stability (cost 1 power rare)
   * You take double unblocked damage. At the end of your turn, double your
     block.

## Martyrdom (cost 1 power uncommon)
   * Shuffle 3 wounds into your deck.
   * Whenever you draw a status card, gain 4 (6) piety.

## Generosity (cost 1 power uncommon)
   * Gilded.
   * When you exhaust a doubloon, draw an additional card.
   * Enhanced: Innate.

## Cursed Gold (cost 0 power uncommon)
   * Gilded
   * At the end of your turn, move 1 (2) doubloon from the exhaust pile to the
     discard pile.

## Auric Form (cost 3(2) power rare) DONE
   * At the beginning of your turn, lose 10% of your gold and gain that much
     block. 

## Phylactery (cost 5 power rare).
   * When you would die, heal to 15% (30%) max HP instead and remove this power.
   * Tithe

## Attacks:

## Coin Fling (cost 0 attack uncommon)
   * Gilded.
   * Discard a card. Deal 6 (9) damage, plus 6 (9) if doubloon.

## Holy Strike (cost 1 attack common) MEH
   * Gain 8 piety, then deal 3(5)\*2 damage.

## Batter (cost 1 attack uncommon) DONE
   * Deal 7 (10) damage.
   * If fully blocked, attack again for 7 (10) damage.

## Auric Lance (cost 1 attack uncommon) DONE
   * Deal 13 (18) damage, lose 10 gold.

## Mercenaries (cost 2 attack common).
   * Tithe.
   * Deal 10 (14) damage plus a fifth (fourth) of the gold lost this turn.

## Searing Virtue (cost 2 attack uncommon)
   * Deal 15 (20) damage, plus 5 (7) for each unique active Vow.

## Passing Bell (cost 1 attack common)
   * Deal 7 (10) damage and gain 1 (2) Enlightened.

## Solar Flare (cost 5 attack uncommon)
   * Tithe
   * Deal 28 damage to an enemy and inflict 2 weak, 2 vuln.
   * Enhanced: 36 damage, 3 weak, 3 vuln.

## Locust Plague (cost 6 attack rare)
   * Tithe
   * Deal 4 (6) damage to a random enemy 10 times.
   * Apply 1 Weak or 1 Vulnerable at random to each enemy hit.

## Wrath of God (cost 8 attack rare)
   * Tithe
   * Deal 50 damage to every enemy and 10 damage to yourself.
   * Enhanced: 80 damage, 16 to yourself.

## Admonish (cost 1 attack common) DONE
   * Deal 6 damage, then gain 6 piety.
   * Enhanced: Deal 9 damage, then gain 6 piety.

## Seal Away (cost 1 attack common)
   * Deal 10 (14) damage, then give the enemy 10 (14) block.

## Smite (cost 2 attack common)
   * Deal 12 (18) damage.
   * Deals 1 additional damage for every 3 (2) piety.

## Upheaval (cost 3 attack uncommon)
   * Tithe.
   * Deal damage equal to twice the enemy's block.

## Rod Slam (cost 2 attack uncommon)
   * Deal 10 (15) damage. Enemy loses 1 strength.

## Punish (cost 2 attack common, base deck)
   * Gain 8 (12) piety. Deal 5\*2 (7 * 2) damage. (Note: this immediately
     removes all gained piety unless blocked)

## Anathema (Cost 3 attack rare)
   * Lose all vows. Deal 10 (15) damage to every enemy for each unique lost vow.
     Exhaust.

## Blasphemy (Cost 2(1) attack rare)
   * Lose all piety. Deal 2 damage for each lost piety.

## Auric Beam (cost 3 (2) attack uncommon) DONE
   * Deal damage equal to 1/10th of your gold.

## Display of Power (cost 1 attack uncommon):
   * Choose a card in your hand. Deal damage equal to 5 (8) times its cost.

# Relics:

## Donation Box (Base)
   * Once per floor, when you have 20 or less gold, gain 100 gold.

## Gilded Ark (Base Upgrade, Boss)
   * Replaces Donation Box.
   * When you obtain Gilded Ark, obtain 3 doubloons.
   * When you exhaust a doubloon, gain 1 energy.

## Beggar's Robes (uncommon):
   * When you have 50 or less gold, gain +3 strength and +3 dexterity.

## Writ of Virtue (uncommon):
   * Gain 4 block at the start of your turn for each unique active vow.

## Apostle's Rod (common):
   * Whenever your attack damage is blocked, gain 2 piety.

## Flagellation Whip (common):
   * Whenever you draw a status card or curse, gain 3 piety.

## Atrium (common):
   * Retain the highest cost card of your hand every turn.

## Holy Edict (uncommon):
   * Regain half of the gold lost at the end of each combat.
